---
title: "Investigating the Effects of Robot Proficiency Self-Assessment on Trust and Performance"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-3-oa
excerpt: ''
date: 2022-03-19
venue: 'AAAI Sprint Symposium Series (SSS)'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.10407'
citation: 'N. Conlon, D. Szafir, and N. Ahmed. <i>Investigating the Effects of Robot Proficiency Self-Assessment on Trust and Performance.</i> Proceedings of the AAAI SSS-22 Symposium "Closing the Assessment Loop: Communicating Proficiency and Intent in Human-Robot Teaming. March 2022.'
---
Human-robot teams will soon be expected to accomplish complex tasks in high-risk and uncertain environments. Here, the human may not necessarily be a robotics expert, but will need to establish a baseline understanding of the robot's abilities in order to appropriately utilize and rely on the robot. This willingness to rely, also known as trust, is based partly on the human's belief in the robot's proficiency at a given task. If trust is too high, the human may push the robot beyond its capabilities. If trust is too low, the human may not utilize it when they otherwise could have, wasting precious resources. In this work, we develop and execute an online human-subjects study to investigate how robot proficiency self-assessment reports based on Factorized Machine Self-Confidence affect operator trust and task performance in a grid world navigation task. Additionally we present and analyze a metric for trust level assessment, which measures the allocation of control between an operator and robot when the human teammate is free to switch between teleportation and autonomous control. Our results show that an a priori robot self-assessment report aligns operator trust with robot proficiency, and leads to performance improvements and small increases in self-reported trust.

<!--[Download paper here](http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf) -->

N. Conlon, D. Szafir, and N. Ahmed. "Investigating the Effects of Robot Proficiency Self-Assessment on Trust and Performance". Proceedings of the AAAI SSS-22 Symposium "Closing the Assessment Loop: Communicating Proficiency and Intent in Human-Robot Teaming." March 2022. 